---
layout: post
title:  The Impact of Biomass Burning Smoke on Clouds and Climate
date: 2021-08-08
description: Using LASIC field campaign data to characterize how does sunlight-absorbing aerosols affect marine stratocumulus clouds
tags: ground-based satellite
categories: research
thumbnail: assets/img/MD22.png
---
Eastern subtropical oceans are home to warm and bright low-level stratocumulus cloud decks. Among them, the southeast Atlantic basin presents an unique opportunity to study smoke-cloud-radiation interactions where seasonally emitted biomass burning plumes from the southern African continent are being advected over the oceanic region via the southern African Easterly Jet. In this work, I investigated how the presence of biomass burning smoke affects marine boundary layer clouds, particularly in the remote southeast Atlantic region. I demonstrated that the presence of sunlight-absorbing aerosols in the boundary layer suppress cloud water and coverage by modifying the boundary layer's thermodynamic structure and coupling state throughout the diurnal cycle. 

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/Z19.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Schematic of the diurnal cycle for days with 'less' (blue) and 'more' (red) smoke.
</div>

The seasonal variation in the vertical distribution of smoke contributes to the amplification of the seasonal cycle in low-cloud fraction, with significant implications for regional climate dynamics and radiative effects. 

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/Z21.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Amplified seasonal cycle in cloud fraction, cloud type, and all-sky albedo.
</div>

<hr>
> These observationally based findings fill in the temporal dimension of aerosol `semi-direct' effect and pose a challenging target for both process modeling and GCMs on their representation of aerosols, clouds, and their interactions with atmospheric circulations from diurnal to regional scales.

#### Related Publications
- **J. Zhang** and P. Zuidema (2019): The diurnal cycle of the smoky marine boundary layer observed during August in the remote southeast Atlantic. _Atmos. Chem. Phys._, 19(23), 14493–14516. [*doi:10.5194/acp-19-14493-2019*](https://doi.org/10.5194/acp-19-14493-2019) [(ACP highligh article)](#) <i class="far fa-star"></i> 
- **J. Zhang** and P. Zuidema (2021): Sunlight-absorbing aerosol amplifies the seasonal cycle in low-cloud fraction over the southeast Atlantic. _Atmos. Chem. Phys._, 21(14), 11179–11199. [*doi:10.5194/acp-21-11179-2021*](https://doi.org/10.5194/acp-21-11179-2021)
- P. Zuidema, A. Sedlacek III, C. Flynn, S. Springston et al. including **J. Zhang** (2018): The Ascension Island boundary layer in the remote southeast Atlantic is often smoky. _Geophys. Res. Lett._, 45(9), 4456–4465. [*doi:10.1002/2017GL076926*](https://doi.org/10.1002/2017GL076926)
- S. Abel, P. Barrett, P. Zuidema, **J. Zhang** et al. (2020): Open cells exhibit weaker entrainment of free-tropospheric biomass-burning aerosol into the south-east Atlantic boundary layer. _Atmos. Chem. Phys._, 20(7), 4059–4084. [*doi:10.5194/acp-20-4059-2020*](https://doi.org/10.5194/acp-20-4059-2020)
- P. Barrett, S. Abel, H. Coe, et al. including **J. Zhang** (2022): Intercomparison of airborne and surface-based measurements during the CLARIFY, ORACLES and LASIC field experiments. _Atmos. Meas. Tech._, 15(21), 6329–6371. [*doi:10.5194/amt-15-6329-2022*](https://doi.org/10.5194/amt-15-6329-2022)
- M. Diamond, P. Saide, P. Zuidema, et al. including **J. Zhang** (2022): Cloud adjustments from large-scale smoke–circulation interactions strongly modulate the southeastern Atlantic stratocumulus-to-cumulus transition. _Atmos. Chem. Phys._, 22(18), 12113–12151. [*doi:10.5194/acp-22-12113-2022*](https://doi.org/10.5194/acp-22-12113-2022) [(ACP highligh article)](#) <i class="far fa-star"></i> 
- C. Howes, P. Saide, H. Coe, et al. including **J. Zhang** (2023): Biomass-burning smoke’s properties and its interactions with marine stratocumulus clouds in WRF-CAM5 and southeastern Atlantic field campaigns. _Atmos. Chem. Phys._, 23(21), 13911–13945. [*doi:10.5194/acp-23-13911-2023*](https://doi.org/10.5194/acp-23-13911-2023)